# Advanced Analysis of Hispanic Voters through Sub-Ethnicity Identification
Abstract
	Recent electoral polls have tracked Hispanic voters in both Presidential and state elections in an effort to determine what influences voter turnout and trends. The aim of this project is to analyze Hispanic voter trends and to categorize each voter into selected sub-groups based on publicly available census data and voter information to then pinpoint which sub-groups need assistance in increasing the overall Hispanic voter turnout. However, public voter information does not include an individual’s Hispanic sub-group and Hispanic is a broad term to classify any individual from Latin or South America. Census data was used to help determine the number of Hispanic sub-groups and percentages of individuals within each Hispanic sub-group at a given zip code. The process of identifying an individual’s most probable sub-group was determined by creating probability percentages based on their first name, last name(s) and zip code. By calculating percentages of the popularity of a given first name and last name(s) within each of the 19 selected Latin and South American countries, a probability of their sub-ethnicity was calculated after combining it with their zip code. After the development of a model and algorithm, all self-identified Hispanic voters were classified in an effort to begin the process of analyzing Hispanic Voter trends. This data will help reveal the patterns and behaviors of Hispanic sub-group voting trends to then pinpoint which sub-groups need help in participating in local and national elections to then increase the over Hispanic Vote.

## Python Implementation
For implementation, a Python script was written in order to begin the process of implementing other counties. The python scripts begin by parsing strings within the excel sheet that includes first name, last name(s), and zip codes. Another excel file was made that includes the supplemental data which is the popularity percentages of first name, last name, and zip code data which is then labeled as supplemental data. The supplemental data excel file will be called every time a county runs through the Python script. The Python script does all the math described in the algorithm and model. Once it runs through a county, it outputs another excel file including all the probability percentages for all 19 sub-groups for each individual in the county. It also displays their zip code, gender, and party affiliation along with additional information that will be used to organize the data. This data from each county will be outputted to then be plotted on a map to then begin analyzing the overall behavior of the Hispanic Voter in Florida. That is the final step of the project and the overall goal.
Additional information about the code is that it has a divide by zero reader where if there is missing data which is inherent when working with large data sets it skips over the individual and will be reanalyzed later. A separate script will be drafted in order to make thresholds and reanalyzed the lost data since there will be a significant amount of lost data due to missing data and first names & last names not existing in the supplemental data.
The Python script will be continued to be optimized since it requires a significant amount of computational power to run relatively small counties. Although the script outputs all necessary data it is too slow and would be impossible to implement in large counties such as Miami-Dade County where the Hispanic population contains thousands of individuals.
